Aragon KPI UMIP (#246)
UMAprotocol/UMIPs: UMIPs/V2migration_KPI_Aragon.md

**IMPORTANT**: Only DAOs created before the publish of the reward program are elligible to receive the options. The publish happened on Mar 30, 2021, 0:00 PM UTC, through this Snapshot proposal - https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXDBG7ZdCfg4fSRDhSwNSsdXggjsLapP9q3ijArysS56C

# **MARKETS & DATA SOURCES**

No definition of markets & data sources required because this is a Aragon KPI option with the ANT token.

# **PRICE FEED IMPLEMENTATION**

As there is no requirement for ongoing monitoring through liquidation or dispute bots, a price feed is not required. The only requirement is a query of the Aragon AUM statistic at the timestamp 00.00(UTC) on 30th June according to the data and markets as defined above.

# **TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS**

**1. Price Identifier Name** - V2migration_KPI_Aragon

**2. Base Currency** - V2migration_Aragon

> 

Reviewer: should be V2migration_KPI_Aragon?

Reviewer 2: Updated

**3. Quote currency** - NA

- There is no quote currency, the denominator is fixed to the ANT token.
- This price identifier does not have a quote currency as it is designed not to be tied to a currency price metric.

**4. Intended Collateral Currency** - ANT

- Does the value of this collateral currency match the standalone value of the listed quote currency?
    - ANT
- Is your collateral currency already approved to be used by UMA financial contracts? If no, submit a UMIP to have the desired collateral currency approved for use.
    - Yes

**5. Collateral Decimals** - 18 decimels

**6. Rounding** - 2 decimal places

# **RATIONALE**

This synthetic is designed as an incentivisation mechanism to push the Aragon DAO's to V2. Since it is an incentivisation program Aragon defined a top threshold that we aim to achieve of migrated assets (100MM USD in converted value of all tokens), and this threshold correspondents to maximium payout of the options for the available reward

This contract will only be called once at expiry, there will be no need to run bots, thus this price feed is only applicable at the expiry timestamp.

> More informatino about the program can be found on these tow proposals on snapshot: [Proposal 1 - The reward program and ANT collateral](https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXDBG7ZdCfg4fSRDhSwNSsdXggjsLapP9q3ijArysS56C) and [Proposal 2 - Upper AUM threshold for the program](https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXq7KzLPQUeqxQ9cceoHwFR3oxoq7oTHHeNLfhrXNehJ9)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More information about the program can be found on these two proposals on snapshot: [Proposal 1 - The reward program and ANT collateral](https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXDBG7ZdCfg4fSRDhSwNSsdXggjsLapP9q3ijArysS56C) and [Proposal 2 - Upper AUM threshold for the program](https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXq7KzLPQUeqxQ9cceoHwFR3oxoq7oTHHeNLfhrXNehJ9)
```

# **IMPLEMENTATION**

> The value of an option can get determined be performing a GET request at the following endpoint provided by the Aragon Association: [datafeed.aragon.org](https://datafeed.aragon.org)

Reviewer 3: Is this WIP? The link is down for me

Reviewer 2: Yes @smb2796 ... the endpoint is not yet available

    - The funds that were migrated will have its USD value calculated based on the prices provided by [https://www.coingecko.com/](https://www.coingecko.com/) 
2. **Pricing interval**
    - The pricing interval are updated each day at 00:00.
3. **Input processing**
    - To get the latest price of the KPI options perform a simple GET request to [datafeed.aragon.org](https://datafeed.aragon.org).
4. **Result processing**
    - The result doesn't need any further processing because our endpoint will directly provide the correctly calculated value of an option.
    - The following calculation is done: Option price (in ANT) = 100k*(Total assets migrated by DAOs to v2 in USD/100MM USD) / 1MM 
    - 100k - amount of ANT collateral allocated to reward program
    - 1MM - amount of options that will be issued
    - Upperbound for migrated assets (meaning, upperbound the reward program will pay for) - USD 100MM
    - Amount of options that will be redeemable by each DAO = (Amount of assets the DAO migrated in USD)/100MM USD * 1MM 
5. **Upperbound exceeded**

>     - Since there is an upperbound of migrated assets that are eligible for this program (100MM USD), if a DAO migrates anything above it, it will not receive the full amount of options. Example: 5 DAOs already migrated 90MM of assets, which means 900M options have already being distributed. The 6th DAO then migrates another 20MM in assets - In this scenario the 6th DAO will receive only 100M options, and not 200M, since we've reached the upperbound. This program works in a first come, first served way.

Reviewer 3: Is this cap on a per DAO basis or a cap on the total migrated assets? 

Also if I'm understanding this correctly, a cap of 100M would imply a price ceiling of 1 ANT. Is this correct?

Reviewer 2: @smb2796 The CAP is for total migrated assets... And the cap is actually 0.1 ANT, since the collateral for the reward is 100k ANT, for 1MM options.

> 

Reviewer 2: @mhairimca this is not implemented per se... we will issue 1MM options.... and distribute them airdropping to the DAOs when they claim the option. All options will be in an Aragon wallet, and we will distribute them until they are over.

Do this answer your question?

    - ANT
- Is your collateral currency already approved to be used by UMA financial contracts? If no, submit a UMIP to have the desired collateral currency approved for use.
    - Yes

**5. Collateral Decimals** - 18 decimels

**6. Rounding** - 2 decimal places

# **RATIONALE**

This synthetic is designed as an incentivisation mechanism to push the Aragon DAO's to V2. Since it is an incentivisation program Aragon defined a top threshold that we aim to achieve of migrated assets (100MM USD in converted value of all tokens), and this threshold correspondents to maximium payout of the options for the available reward

This contract will only be called once at expiry, there will be no need to run bots, thus this price feed is only applicable at the expiry timestamp.

More informatino about the program can be found on these tow proposals on snapshot: [Proposal 1 - The reward program and ANT collateral](https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXDBG7ZdCfg4fSRDhSwNSsdXggjsLapP9q3ijArysS56C) and [Proposal 2 - Upper AUM threshold for the program](https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXq7KzLPQUeqxQ9cceoHwFR3oxoq7oTHHeNLfhrXNehJ9)

# **IMPLEMENTATION**

> - The value of an option can get determined be performing a GET request at the following endpoint provided by the Aragon Association: [datafeed.aragon.org](https://datafeed.aragon.org)

Reviewer 4: Since the API endpoint is not yet available, can you provide an expected response format here?

Reviewer 2: It should return real-time value of an option.

Expected response should be a number (representing the value option in ANT), for example 0.001

@nivida please confirm both information.

Author: It will provide real-time value before expiration. I will add an example of the response body. We will return the timestamp when the value was calculated plus the value of an option as a number.

> - The total value locked is the Aragon AUM within the EMP contract of UMA.

Reviewer 5: What does that mean? Isnt the VL locked in the EMP fixed at 100k ANT?

Reviewer 2: Yep.... this line is just confusing... removing it

1. **What prices should be queried for and from which markets?**
    - The value of an option is calculated based on all funds migrated from V1 DAOs to V2 DAOs and can get requested from our endpoint at: [datafeed.aragon.org](https://datafeed.aragon.org)

>     - The funds that were migrated will have its USD value calculated based on the prices provided by [https://www.coingecko.com/](https://www.coingecko.com/) 

Reviewer 6: Is there a more specific link on Goingecko, pointing to ANT v2 at the expiration timestamp?

Author: Can you elaborate closer on this? If I understood you correctly would I have to provide a list of coins managed by v1 DAOs?

Reviewer 2: @therealhexi - If you mean the price of ANT token, is this one (https://www.coingecko.com/en/coins/aragon), but this is not the price that matters... From Sam's comment, it will depend on the assets the DAO holds, which can be any token, and wouldn't make sense to have a list of all existing tokens here right?

2. **Pricing interval**
    - The pricing interval are updated each day at 00:00.
3. **Input processing**

>     - To get the latest price of the KPI options perform a simple GET request to [datafeed.aragon.org](https://datafeed.aragon.org).

Reviewer 4: Is it considered that human intervention could be necessary in case the datafeed is not available or was expected to output different result if one were to do manual calculation of USD value migrated? In that case it would be helpful to include guidance for voters on how to verify USD value migrated manually.

Reviewer 2: @Reinis-FRP - will this be enough?

"- Migrated assets can have its value calculated manually by listing all tokens that were migrated, and fetching its prices (in USD) from coingecko at the moment of migration, multiplying tokens by prices, and summing it all"

Reviewer 4: Great, if possible, could you also add a migration contract address and specific events that one would need to observe on-chain in order to manually verify the amount of migration?

Reviewer 2: This is under development... @nivida can you also shine a light here?

Author: Thanks, I will add the contract details.

4. **Result processing**
    - The result doesn't need any further processing because our endpoint will directly provide the correctly calculated value of an option.
    - The following calculation is done: Option price (in ANT) = 100k*(Total assets migrated by DAOs to v2 in USD/100MM USD) / 1MM 
    - 100k - amount of ANT collateral allocated to reward program
    - 1MM - amount of options that will be issued

>     - Amount of optinos that will be redeemable by each DAO = (Amount of assets the DAO migrated in USD)/100MM USD * 1MM 

Reviewer 5: Can you add the upper bounds to the calculations? Otherwise numbers go above the limits.

Can you also add an example scenario with >= 2 DAOs migrating more than 100MM in total?

# **Security considerations**

**Example questions**

> 1. Where could manipulation occur?

Reviewer 7: Could I create a v1 DAO with $100MM just before expiry and migrate it, let the contract expire and withdraw my 100MM? 

I guess this speaks to a broader ambiguity around how you compute the dollar amount of migrated v1 DAOs.

- Is this only measuring the total market cap of v2 DAOs at expiry (i.e. no "migration" is necessary)?
- If a v1 DAO increases their TVL before migration, does that affect the total?
- If a v1 DAO increases their TVL after migration, but before expiration, does that affect the total?

Reviewer 2: Ah... well pointed... only v1 DAOs created before the first vote on Snapshot (https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXDBG7ZdCfg4fSRDhSwNSsdXggjsLapP9q3ijArysS56C) are eligible!!!! Forgot to mention this on the doc.

Replying to your questions
- Is this only measuring the total market cap of v2 DAOs at expiry (i.e. no "migration" is necessary)? It is measuring the market cap OF the migrated DAOs... not new DAOs on v2 that were not on v1 for example.
- If a v1 DAO increases their TVL before migration, does that affect the total? If they increase it, and they migrate this new total, it impacts... BUT, the migration is a one time action... It is not about sending assets from one DAO to the other and random times
- If a v1 DAO increases their TVL after migration, but before expiration, does that affect the total? It does not impact at all

Basically... the migratino action will happen once for a DAO, and this is when we evaluate the mkt value of that DAO in particular

Reviewer 4: > Ah... well pointed... only v1 DAOs created before the first vote on Snapshot (https://snapshot.org/#/aragon/proposal/QmXDBG7ZdCfg4fSRDhSwNSsdXggjsLapP9q3ijArysS56C) are eligible!!!! Forgot to mention this on the doc.

Just to clarify what you mean by eligible:
1. v1DAOs that receive KPI options, or
2. v1DAOs that are counted as part of v2 migration for USD value calculation?

Reviewer 2: An eligible DAO (meaning it can be part of the program), is any DAO that existed prior to Mar 30, 2021, 0:00 PM UTC (So, before the first proposal was released on Snapshot). If one of those DAOs migrate to v2, it can claim the options.

If a DAO was created after that on v1, and migrate, it will not be entitled to receive the options.

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify - would the ineligible DAO's migrated assets still count towards `Total migrated assets` in the price calculation?

Reviewer 2: No @smb2796 ... only the eligible ones
